So anyway, then when we got our health center
built, a big part of my practice was the zoo. I'd go
there every day for two or three or four hours,
whatever necessitated. And then still I had a
large animal practice, equine practice. And then
I recommended that they get a full-time
veterinarian at the zoo, and I did not want it
because I had a pretty good equine practice, and
I've got a couple of farms, and I kind of like to do
different things. so then they hired a couple of
full-time and one of them so they didn't do they
didn't get they did yeah yeah and i do work i go there
once a while when they somebody's out of town dr
fletcher's there now he's in there all the people
that i know didn't zoo worker in there and uh so
present time and we have tom mitch and aazv About
the time I started zoo work, the American
Association of Zoo Veterinarians was just
started. And we had no literature, we had no books,
we had no normals. I think the first meeting I went
to was... Michigan State. I guess it was... It was
the only one they had. Yeah, I guess that was back
about 19... had to be about 1960. 59, 60, 61. No,
about 60, 61, 62. It was in the early 60s when they
had a few meetings. Yeah, and there were only, I
think there were 15. I went to Michigan State, when
Tom and I went, and I started going to them, we went
to Michigan State, the Kellogg Center. There was
15 or 18 veterinarians there, and they met once a
year, and we still had very little information
knowledge books literature so then it now it is i go
every year went to hawaii and went to australia
last year and the avian society a avian
association met with a zoo vendor in hawaii year
before last and now there's international
organizations there are thousands of members and
we have books that we have some gentlemen that are
really specialists at it, Dr. Murray Fowler in
Davis, California, and some other people. And we
have a lot of things, Tom. Really, a lot of
information. In fact, I tell people that in that
field, and I think just what Stubby's saying, that
the last about probably five to six or seven years,
I've been on the greatest learning curve of my
career in these species because the
information's being disseminated and published
and flowing. And I've learned more medical,
gained more medical knowledge in those species in
the last five or six years than the other 20 years
put together. You know, because we were just down
here stumbling along, trying to do the best we
could. And nobody to talk to or share information.
Colleges have some people. They had one man
several years ago, a very good friend of mine,
died. I was a pulper. Dr. Dean Brown was the only
exotic teacher at A&M. They only had one course.
Now they have a couple of men, and they're going to
have to expand. They're going to have to expand.
The demand I want to get into, I want to bring this up
because it is important. I went to Australia the
year before last to wildlife it. And there are only
two of us in the United States that are exotic
veterinarians, wildlife. Over there, for
example, in Texas now, exotic medicine, there's
ranches. I have ranches from five acres to
thousands of acres. They have eight-foot fences
around them. I have an article written on that.
You've got them fenced in now. When their
population increases, if you don't take care of
them, feed them, supplement them, get rid of the
surplus, you create a monster. And I can tell you
many things about this. Anyway, it's created a new
business in Texas, exotic medicine, because now
we have, you can come to Texas and hunt or shoot any
kind of a trophy that's in Africa. There's more
black buck antelope and axis deer in Texas than
there is in Asia where they originated. I mean, by
thousands. Is that right? That's interesting. I
know we've got some around College Station. I had a
friend, a client, Mr. Liu from Taiwan that raised
axis. We shipped three loads. by Flying Tiger
Airlines to Taiwan. Now he has a ranch in Taiwan.
And when I was in Australia, we stayed on a game farm
for two nights. They get more for the horns that are
cut off in the velvet that the Taiwanese and some of
the people think are an aphrodisiac and make you
live forever. They get more for that and they do the
meat. Now here in Texas, the meat, some of it, but
there's too many hunters in Texas. The thing in
Texas that it's really doing is trophy hunting,
the big trophy heads of all these axes, greater
kudu, lesser kudu, sable antelope, you name it.
It's created a complete new thing, and it's
growing ostriches right now real hot. They were
getting $800 for a little three- or
four-month-old ostrich. Now, a gentleman told me
the other day they're getting $3,000 to $4,000,
and he bought a pair of ostrich for $82,000.
five-year-old breeding stock. He has an
incubator he paid $70,000. And they all think
they're going to get rich, but the very few of them
are going to make any money. You may not have heard
of him, but Fred Thornberry, who's an A&M in poker
science, he's been getting a lot of this exotic
bird inquiry. Boy, he says, when they come to me
with ostriches now, I tell them, you know, Stay out
of it. You're going to lose your shirt. And he said,
they'll do it anyway. They'll do it anyway. You
can't tell. They have the money and the ostrich
skin boots and the feathers and something unique.
People have money. They're going to do something
with it. I'm going to California next month to
visit Murray Fowler. I'll talk to A&M. And they're
limited. I'm limited. as to the whole ostrich
picture, and I know more than most people. I have
more experience with them. But we have, you know,
when each phase of each one specific individual
animal all of a sudden gets popular, then
everybody knows a thing about it, and there's one
alcohol. It concentrates the problems, too. You
know, some guy can have a one or two ostriches out
here, or a few of them, and he's raised them, and he
doesn't have any problem. But when you start
getting 40 or 50 of them, you start having
overcrowding, and your nutritional problems,
and disease control. Parasite problems. Yeah,
parasite problems, and then it just accentuates.
I have a little article I wrote about 12 years ago.
When I was doing the zoo work, and I started going to
ranches, and with the ant ranches in the 70s,
everybody was putting an eight-foot fence around
them. 50 or 100 or 20 or whatever. And all of a
sudden, they start like this. And I wrote a little
article. I always used to go talk to them. I'd talk
to them at Chamber of Commerce and there and places
they'd get me to come up and talk to them. And I
finally have a little article that has an outline.
When you get older population, you're going to get
reproduction. You get malnutrition. You get
parasitism. You get crowding, male-female
imbalance. You get all these things occur. Man
creates them and puts them in an eight-foot fence.
If the weather, normally they migrate if they run
out of fruit on that place. When you put them in an
eight-foot fence, they can't migrate. And I've
been on ranches that some supposedly intelligent
good people had, and they wouldn't feed them.
You'd go out and be carcass land. Now, I wanted to.
I've reported some of them to Humane Society. Some
of the people were afraid of them. They had a lot of
clout. But anyway, you can imagine what you get.
And it's still going on, and it's... It's going to
continue to go on, but mainly in Texas, in my
opinion, at the present time, the trophy heads are
worth more than anything. But ostriches are hot
now, llamas are hot, and it's going to go from
animal to animal. Llamas are a big thing. I used to
refer llamas. I used to have a client at Fort
Terrace Ranch in the other side of Junction, a real
fine man, Mr. Noel, had just a play thing. He just
had a few because of friends, and he liked them.
You'd get ostriches, everything just running
around. They were all gentle. You could feed them.
A male ostrich, by the way, besides a casserine, is
probably the most dangerous. They have a middle
toe about that long. And with a male ostrich, I have
pictures of dents in pickup trucks. A male ostrich
in mating season will attack a bulldozer or an
airplane. He has no fear of anything. We've had to
decoy him to get through fences. They can jump up
and hit you. They can open you up. I've got pictures
of them. They're very dangerous. Most people
don't realize it. Oh, they're dangerous. That's
the reason I'm glad to refer those to stuff. All
your large breeds of birds at the zoo, I learned
this over Mr. Chisholm when I first went. Big
pelicans and cranes that have long beaks. Like Tom
said, the animal that's raised in captivity has no
fear of man. He is the most dangerous. All for
different reasons. And you walk in one of their
pens and they'll walk up to you. And if they don't
like it, before they hit you in the eye. So you never
get into it and never let them get too close to you.
So that's a true statement there. But anyway, so,
you know, let's see. I was kind of putting an
outline in front of it. Oh, that's interesting,
too. That's good information. But it's a changing
picture. And cage birds, like Tom said, are just,
And exotic animals are just going crazy in this
state. We have a climate where a lot of them do well
and we have a lot of people with small ranches and
farms that get interested and have a little extra
money. So when did you, when did you essentially
step out of the zoo work? Well I, I, oh let's see, 78
to 80 something, about nine years ago. And then
they got another veterinarian and he quit and I
went back and worked with him on a contract
part-time basis. And now they call it a swab and
he's out of town. I like ranch exotic work. I really
like it. It's challenging. It's every ranch is
different. It's a different environment.
You have partners, associates? No, I'm by myself.
Dr. James and I sold that place. Everybody's
scattered like a bunch of quail. You're not
thinking about bringing anybody else in with you?
No, I want to keep it simple. I want to keep it simple
and do what I can do. You know, you get a little
older, you get cranky, and you get more
particular, and you kind of, I know what I know, and
I know my limitations, and I'll refer somebody
else to something I can do, I think I can do justice
to. I'll do it. If not, I'll refer somebody else. Do
you have any working associations at A&M, at the
college or anything, or do you have much
involvement with them at all? Not right now. We
were talking about having some practitioners
that are knowledgeable and experienced come up
and have some little group seminars, kind of like
Tom was doing, except he was doing it for the
students and the other practitioners. But
they're going to have to do it because unless they
get a couple of knowledgeable professors out
there that are more versatile. Well, and the
problem is we've recommended for the last several
years that they get a clinician. full-time
clinician, at least in Cagesburg Medicine or in
Cagesburg Medicine and other exotics. And the
problem in talking with Dr. Samuelson is the fact
that the college can get money for a piece of
equipment easier than they can for a new staff
position. And so their budget limitations have
really thwarted that. They want to do that, but
they've just not been able to do that. The
gentleman he talked about is Cagesburg, and they
have Dr. Jensen, a young veterinarian who I talked
to at the state meeting a while But they need it.
They have to use him in everything. He can't just
dedicate himself to exotics and that kind of
thing. I called up there last week and talked to Dr.
Julep, who's in charge of postgraduate seminars.
He's a personal friend of mine. And he said,
they're hard to catch, and I want to go up and visit
with them for a day. And they're just snowed. Yeah.
Well, you know, that same area, the interest is
really there. You know, Walter can tell you that
we, I think it was, I don't know, four or five years
ago, we held the first Caged Bird seminar,
continuing education seminar for
practitioners, and I was on the program, and we
brought,
let's see, I think we brought Susan Club in from
Florida, and Dr. Fred Seufer from from Houston.
Yeah, you need to talk to Fred. And we put on the
first avian seminar at A&M, and it was the best
attended seminar that they'd ever put on up there.
And still continues to be. Each year they have an
avian seminar, and Walter said it still continues
to be the best attended seminar he puts on. So the
interest is really there from the practitioners.
Many of them are only going to see maybe a few of
these animals, but they want some knowledge when
they do get confronted with it. I have young
veterinarians, and I'm sure Tom does too, that
call me, and I'm charging them consultations
because I don't want to keep giving out my dosages
that it took me 20 years to learn. And they don't
know anything. They're in a small town. They're
doing a mixed practice because they have to. And
somebody has a llama. Somebody has an ostrich.
Somebody has this giraffe here last week. And they
call. And a lot of them have been calling me because
I'm one of the few that used to go and stay at ranches
on general exotics. And I don't know it all, but I
learned a lot. And so I try to help them and give them
at least something to do. But that's why Tom says
it. The ostrich seminar, they had a great crowd up
there last month. They had a llama seminar. Dr.
Murray Fowle from Davis, California, is probably
the most knowledgeable general exotic man in the
world. One of them. And then they're going to have
more of them, I'm sure. They need them. They have
to. The veterinarians are just groping for
knowledge. And they have to get it or refer to
somebody else. But we should become more
specialized than we're going to. That's good.
That's a good thing. That's been fascinating.
Let's shift to another area of pioneering
veterinary medicine. Yeah, the real pioneer. The
real pioneer. In other words, could you tell me a
little bit, tell us about how you got into the
business and your background and your
recollections of entering into the profession,
your problems and measures and so forth. Well, I
was born here in San Antonio. Okay. And what is your
full name? Norma Anelna Betts. My husband's name
is Brockley, B-R-A-U-C-H-L-E. So I have a nice
alias I can hide. Well,
I kind of feel
like this. I lose my identity completely.
Somebody wants to come to town that I knew 30 years
ago, they'd never find me.
I didn't know there was a legal reason for doing
that. No, I do it where I work. I'm in the elder beds
of Brockley. I think many of the married gals do
that. My daddy busted his butt putting me through
school. Retain their maiden name as their
professional name. Excuse me, go ahead. No, I was
born here. Oh, I decided when I was about seven I
wanted to be a veterinarian. Did you really? Yeah,
my dad said, well, you know, the sky's the limit.
There was nothing that he ever told me that I
couldn't accomplish. I grew up thinking the world
was my oyster. I'm serious. My daddy never told me,
you can't do this or you can't do that. You've got to
have that attitude to a certain degree. Too many
obstacles. I graduated from Burbank High School.
I tried to get into A&M, and of course they didn't
want me. When was that? This was back in graduating
from Burbank in 43. I was 16 years old. And we had
just gone through a short period over there where
they had a few women come to school. Oh, the summer
is all they take. Yeah, because I went over and
talked to Dr. Turk on many occasions. You don't
know him. He was long before you. Dr. Turk and Dr.
Robinson tried. Yeah, they did try. They did try.
Because there were a few who were there full-time
in the late 30s because of the depression, local
faculty-wise. Yeah, faculty-wise and
offspring, but that was all, and certainly not in
the area of medicine. No, that's right. I mean,
that's no place for a female. That was one of the old
eyes. So my dad wrote the commission of education
here, who was at that time Leo Edwards. He wrote him
back that they didn't send women out of state
schools. They'd send black out of state schools,
but not a woman. That made my daddy upset. So I
applied to Auburn. It was either Auburn or
Colorado State. There weren't that many
veterinary schools then. And those that did have
vet schools certainly didn't want to accept a
student from a state that had a veterinary school
of their own. But you really had a double problem. I
can see that. That's right. Went to Auburn,
applied for, well, did my pre-vet work there.
About a year or two later, my family moved there.
That way, I was a resident. And got in vet school.
See, I'm on through. We were back on the quarter
system then. Took us four years, three months, and
11 days straight through. It's tough. It's during
the war. Learned a lot. So your family really put a
lot into it for you with that degree. And then you
got your degree and you came back to Texas right
away. Came back, yeah. The same time. That was
home. My grandparents were here. So the summer
before I graduated, old Dr. Wharton got me a job
with Gene Ingram, who I'm sure you've met in the
optosis. at a clinic there on Broadway. Oh, I
remember, yeah. I was trying to think of his name.
Howard. And Dr. Barton kind of took me under his
wing. Be careful. You better be careful. I never
had any problem with him. I knew him when I was in
high school. He used to come out to Burbank and talk
to the class. You weren't one of the seven wives?
No. His seventh wife or his fifth wife shot him in
the face. Oh, man, I can... Put a hole through his
head you could throw your hat through. Shot him
three times, once in the front, once in the back,
and once in the side as he turned. And then shot his
ex, one of the other ex-wives ran to the bathroom
and she emptied a gun in the bathroom door. Well, he
was visiting one of his ex-wives and this other one
of his ex-wives... Early days of the old west. Hey,
you know, all I can say is he did marry him. Ingram
now is, are you in a partnership? No, no, no, no. I
just worked for him the summer before I graduated.
That was all. And then when I graduated, I came
back. Dr. Wharton got me a job down at Swift's with
Dr. Fisher. who is now retired and is in . Is that
where he is? The wife is a physician. She's a health
director down there. Well, I'll be down there. And
I just decided I really wanted all those darn
single trees on the floor and those tubs all day
long. And I was, shoo, I couldn't take it. And you
were inspecting? Yeah, livers, gallbladders. A
real glamorous job. That's right. Oh, hey, you
know, at least they equipped you. I mean, you could
get the chain gloves, you know, and stuff like
that. So I went back and graduated. There was a guy
in Georgia who wanted me to come to work for him, so I
went and took the state board in Atlanta. I was the
first woman to make the state board there. It was
big, plastered all over the newspaper. Is that
right? She was the only girl in our... When
I started the school, there were 50 of us in a
pre-vet class. Like I said, four years, three
months, and 11 days later, two of us of that 50
graduated together. The rest of them flunked out
or went into the military. And out of the 27 in our
class, 25 were veterans or add-ons. Only from the
Okefenokee Swamp in Georgia. And I finished
together. Were there other women in that
group? Had there been other women through the
program before at Auburn? Two. Is that right?
Lucille Demerling and Marie Hall-Alberger, who
is quite a mycologist. I think she did a master's
when she was here. Pardon me. She
went to work for Auburn. She was faculty. She was
there when I went back for the last reunion. Came
back here, went in small animal practice. Are you
going in on your own? No, I went with Bob
Sturdivant, went to the Aftosa thing. You
remember Bob Sturdivant? He's in that because he
did zoo work. Everybody that I could find did zoo
work. is in there about the time they did it. It
might help you. Bob went to a post-problem foot and
mouth in Mexico. And David Sprinkle, who was a
small animal veterinarian and lived out here on
what was then almost Luke Road, had a clinic and a
kennel just down the road from Leo Holbrook.
And I took over the clinic in Alma Heights. David
decided he's going to go back into service and that
left me. And it wasn't really very lucrative.
Sturdivant hadn't been a very frugal
businessman.
That's saying it nicely. Yes, that's very nice. We
can all have comments. His creditors came and got
his x-ray machine first,
and came and got some of his other equipment. Were
you leasing, or what was your situation right now?
Well, I was paying the rent on the place, and then
splitting the take with this guy who's in Mexico.
And finally, he said, hey, man, ain't nothing here
anymore to practice with, you know? Bob was known
as, I think, probably The best term, kindest term
is a maverick.
He was a wheeler and dealer outside of veterinary
medicine. Got him in trouble all the time. I saw him
one time over at Dale's gun shop and he was buying
some, oh he went in there and bought a whole bunch of
ammunition and a bunch of clay pigeons, you know.
And a friend of mine was with me in bed there, and he
said, well, so-and-so, he owes me, I don't know,
$300 or $400 for this and that. He didn't care. He'd
borrow stuff from everybody in town, and then
they'd pay back drugs and everything else. He was a
nice fellow, just nice. But I mean, he just, he was
astute. So your business is disappearing. An
astute. Yes. Your business is physically
disappearing. Yeah. The equipment was just about
to cut. And about that time, Bob and I decided to get
married, and we leased a sprinkles place out here
on Almost Loop Road, which later became Lawndale,
and had a kennel there, so I had a clinic there.
And that was for a long time. Your husband's not a
veteran. No, he's an Aggie, though. He taught in
the veteran's school I taught in. That's what I was
going to say. He taught now in the veteran's
training program. And they needed another slot.
And you and I, I think, were out there at the same
time. Because I was out in Martinez. Oh, were you
there? Yeah, I was at Martinez. And you were? I was
at Charlotte. Yeah. And Harold was in Poteet.
Poteet. And we rotated. It was the Atascosa County
Vocational School. And it was Veterans Training
Program. Ranch Boys. Instead of going to college,
they got I went to school a couple of days a week.
Yeah, I went to school a couple of days a week. And
talking about diseases and genetics, no physical
treatment or anything. I didn't compromise. You
did like I did. I just kind of got to look at it and
generalize. Yeah, I mean, as far as compromising
or prostituting my profession, I don't think I can
be accused of doing that.
Of course, when I came back to take the state board,
Dr. Robinson got Ed Hornicle to get me some old
quizzes. That's... Okay, let me ask you about the
state board. When you came back to take the state
board, was that a problem at all? No, I don't think
it was a problem, was it? Had other women finished
taking the state board? Were there other women
practitioners in Texas at the time? Or do you know
anything specific about it? Yeah, old Campbell
was in Dallas with Dr. MacLeod. Did it even occur to
you that you were doing something different by
coming back to practice? Oh, I had no problem
knowing that it was something different. The
members of my class made that perfectly clear.
Were you the only girl in the class in law school?
Well, see, when we took, I was at A&M, I just
graduated, and she was the only girl, of course, we
had the only girl students at A&M at the time. I was
the only one up there taking the state board. How
were you received locally by your colleagues
here? Well,
there were three who really went to bat for me. Dr.
Ray, who happened to be on the board at that time, Al
Nagel, who is still living, and Walt Lawrence, who
is not living. Harry Flaticle said, will you come
out? Yeah, you come to work for me. You want me to
clean cages? I said, really? I've done enough of
that. Thank you. If I'm going to clean cages, I'm
going to do it for myself. And so we started the
clinic out here, just over the hill from Leo
Holbrook. What was the name of your clinic? Was it
Broadway? No, I don't know. Was it Leo Holbrooks?
No, Holbrooks was Broadway. That was Broadway.
Airport. Airport, that's right. Why am I saying
that? Heck, it's still on my checks. Yeah, that's
right. Airport. Airport. And you and your husband
were in the business together? No, he was with the
Atascosa County Vocational School. He's a
teacher. He's a counselor. Yeah, I know that. I
know he's not a... Yeah, he's not right in there.
But he's not a business associate either in that
sense. Back then and maybe still now, I'm not sure.
You've got to be a veterinarian to be part of the
practice. I didn't know if you could have a
business associate. I've never even thought of
having a business associate. It's been illegal up
until recently. I don't know anybody that is. This
was back when Gleason. Before Dr. Gleason? Well,
before I graduated from college, old Dr. Gleason
and Dr. Ray. Dr. Ray and, oh, who was the one on San
Pedro? Who was the one down on San Pedro? I want to,
Burby. Burby. Would go out and do TB testing and
stuff on cattle. And somebody called and phoned,
well, I'll do it for 50 cents a head. and they'll
call somebody else, well, Dr. So-and-so says
he'll do it for 50 cents, well, I'll do it for 40. I
mean, you talk about cutthroat. Well, it's come
full circle. It's right back where it used to be.
This is just exactly what I was going to say. How
long it took us to clean up, if you would, the
telephone book. We talked about that this
morning. And Judas Priest, look at it now. It's
like a bunch of lawyers. It's worse than it was
before. I mean, if that's what veterinary
medicine is all about, that's fine. It's not for
me. Now, when you started in your clinic, are you
doing almost exclusively small animal at this
time? Yes. Are you doing any large animal
practice? Well, a little bit. My husband didn't
exactly look with favor on the large animal. The
majority of it was some lameness and some screw
worms that I picked out of a horse's hoof and scared
the hell out of him. But I did limit it. There were
horses around us. We were in the county, just
inside Lukeport County. It was not in the city at
all. Broadway didn't even run all the way through
out here. Scrivener's was the end of the earth,
wasn't it? Not the country. I mean, you see deer
running right out here where this building is. The
country store. Now, roughly what year is this when
your clinic first opened? 48. 48. 40, yeah, 48, 49.
See, I graduated in 47, December 47. So I was 48, 49.
And I laughed about your poultry bit because we
used to buy chicks from Casimir Cheryl Hatchery in
Bryan, remember? They had the highline chickens.
Yeah, highline chickens. And talk about the a brew
mill over there. We dressed 150 friars every
Saturday morning and took them over to art over
here at Oak Grove. It was a brew mill and
restaurant. Those first few years, could you talk
about that in your clinic as you got started? Well,
yeah, I guess I was somewhat of an oddity. I had done
some relief work for Al Nagel and for Perry Stein
and a few of the others around. So I wasn't
ostracized by any potential clients that I would
call. You didn't run into any client resistance?
No, they'd call on the phone, you know, I need to
talk to Dr. Betts, and I'd say, this is she. And over
where I am now, you know, they'd call, man, hey,
Dr., catch that lady on line four. Good afternoon,
may I help you? I want to talk to the veterinarian.
well I know because you know you know when Mary when
Mary Mainster started with me you know I had some
clients you know we're used to me and they'd say
well I don't want that one there now conversely
though would you not also have attracted a certain
client I think this is because in households the
the wife, the mother, is the one who takes care of
the animals. Well, of course, Mary, we used to
laugh about it. Mary would say, well, you know, she
had one, and once in a while, didn't want that man in
her ear. Yeah. So it worked out. Yeah. I didn't have
any problem with myself. I mean, I knew this was
what I wanted, and hey, you know, that's just the
brains. Right. Okay. Now, our classmates used to
razz me in our bacteriology props that Oh, Nellie,
don't worry. There's always a vet school in
Tuskegee for niggers and women. But I was the one
that babysat his kids. I mean, I was the one that he
called the babysat. Did you ever then have any
continuing involvement or relations with A&M?
No. With the problem of... No, I tell you the truth,
I was just a little ticked with A&M. I can imagine
you would be. In the common vernacular, yes. Yeah,
I can imagine you would be. But then when I got in
Ammo Control, I became really involved with the
Texas Ammo Control Association on the ground
floor with the initiation of that, and also with
the National Ammo Control Association. And now, I
know A&M campus better than Bob does, and when he
went up there for his reunion last year, you want to
go here? Well, it's not there. Yes, it is. I'll show
you. It's changed considerably. Yeah. Yeah, boy.
Yeah. So how long did you stay in, basically in
private practice, is that the right word? Yeah,
I guess full time until about 1960 when we moved
over on Kennelworth. We sold a place over here. Oh,
60, 61, somewhere in there. And I did relief work
for veterinarians. in the area. And then Ed
Hornigle called me in 75 and said, say, I want to
come over here and work at Ample Control.
Actually, what he said, do you want to come over and
work the dog pound? I said, do you mean like full
time? He said, yeah. And I said, I'll come over and
follow you around for a while, and I'll tell you.
So this is different. And that's what you're
doing, right? You're the director? I'm in animal
control. Are there others with you in the office?
Dr. Lammers, a K-State graduate,
he's been there almost 30 years. Ned Lammers. Does
Crenshaw come over here? Elmo? Yeah, Elmo
Crenshaw. He goes over to Austin. That's the
Humane Society. They have a program where they...
Well, no, but we work with them. I mean, we give them
animals to adopt, and they were with us last year
from February to August while they were
remodeling their place. And, of course, Bill
Bilderbeck serves on their board. Well, one of the
really, I think, one of the really... top
accomplishments that Denelda was involved with
was for years in San Antonio, the humane
organizations, humane society, has had an
adversary relationship with the dog pound. It was
a big bad thing, and they were down there
demonstrating to city council and all kinds of bad
things about it. And now they're working
together. the Humane Society and the Animal
Control Facility. And the Humane Society is
adopting, handling their adoptions. They did
last year. We're sending them animals when we have
more than what we can feasibly adopt. So they've
got a working relationship, which should have
existed. you know for years there are any large
facilities you don't have to humane side a lot when
I look at animals I don't know study where are they
gonna pull up well I mean they got a place really
down the stockyards and put them in a pen well honey
that's all we do that's all you can do where you
gonna put them they told me they had the money but
they didn't have the location so buy some property
why don't they buy some property well they looked
you know they looked I know they looked at trying to
maybe sell that property and try to find another
location. And they just couldn't really do it
without costing them a lot of money. So they
enlarged their present facility. There wasn't
any reciprocity when I graduated. So I took the
Alabama board, the Georgia board, and then came
back here and took the Texas board with you. You
went through the examination. Well, I figured,
hey. I might as well do it now. Sure. Well, it's
fresh on your mind. Yeah. Oh, they make quite a big
deal of it, the Georgia board. Of course, Alabama
has been two before me. Yeah. They accepted me. I
don't think I was ever really outcast because I
kept up with some of the profs and with some of my
classmates who unfortunately are alive and dead
now. Are all of you now pretty active in the Texas
Veterinary Medical Association? Yeah. I'm on the
ethics board. I'm enjoying it. I'm on the
conference convention, I guess. I've served on
public health and on historical quite a bit with
Freud and, oh, what's his face, in Austin. And I'm
on the public relations committee. Oh, Schaefer,
no. No. I'm sorry, too. I knew Eddie Grist. Oh,
yeah, Eddie. I worked with Eddie on the historical
thing, but Eddie is sore. I haven't seen him in
quite a while. Let me just throw this out real
quick. What do you think each of you, that a history
of veterinary medicine should do or say, or is
there something special that you would think
needs to be developed? Well, I think, I mean, I'll
get it off my chest first. You know, I think we've
talked about specialization, which to me
increases efficiency,
keeping up with seminars, postgraduate work.
Well, I think that, to me, one of the things in
looking back in my career in veterinary medicine
is that I guess that professions have to change.
That's part of that. And in a way, as you grow older,
it's more difficult to change with it. But we've
enjoyed a profession that's been very unique up to
now. uh in which veterinarians really i think
really felt like colleagues uh not like
competitors and enjoyed a professionalism and a
camaraderie among themselves that i see
disappearing today we all do thank god and that's
that's the part that is disturbing about what's
happening and And RMM, Robert Miller, says it's
because we've graduated too many veterinarians
and there's too much competition. And I think that
that certainly is a factor in it. I think that
probably the federal government has played a role
in striking down the traditional rules of
professional conduct that have guided our
professions for many, many years. That's my next
question. Why is this happening? I think it's
twofold. And I think there's a third factor
involved in that that it's a change that has
occurred in our young people the values our value
systems uh after post post vietnam war and i think
all of those things have played a role i think all of
them have played a role but they all boil down to
people Well, they do. We've seen that everywhere.
In the Department of History, I was department
head. I hired a bunch of people, and they are the
most cutthroat bunch of people I've ever seen.
It's a huge trend. And we all see it. So I don't think
you can lay it at any one doorstep. But I think you
agree, Billy, are those the prime reasons? Yeah, I
think that it's a free. There's a different breed
of animal out there. Yeah, that's right. Exactly.
I think we need more cooperation. Now, where
that's going to lead to, I don't know. I kind of have
a feeling. that things have a tendency to come full
circle. And I remember I've been a consultant to
Trinity University to their animal programs for
about 25 years. And I go down there probably once
every month or two and tour their animal
facilities and get together with professors who
are using animals and problems they're doing. And
I can think back through what's happened on the
campus And just thinking about it strictly from
dress, a dress code. What went through and now it's
come back and you see the kids now wearing ties,
white shirts, girls wear dresses, need haircuts.
I mean, you know, several years ago you go down
there and, I mean, they're walking around with
cut-off Levi's and T-shirts with no bras and, you
know, I mean, hair down to here and, you know. And I
look at what's happened in that and I can't help but
think that that same thing is going to happen in our
profession, I don't think that I'm going to be
around to see it come the full circle. Or I may be
around, but I won't be actively involved in
practice at that point. But it's now like, the
veterinarians come in and they're doing all these
extended hours things. And I can remember when we
started, when I started, we used to be open from 7 to
9 on Thursday evening, all day Saturday. We had
hours Sunday afternoon, usually three to four
hours on Sunday afternoon. And then we all got
together and said, well, let's knock out this
evening and Sunday thing. And we found everybody
said, oh, gee, everybody's wringing their hands.
Oh, we're going to lose business, you know, and all
that stuff. But we all did it. And boy, we
compressed our business into shorter hours. And
then pretty soon we started cutting our hours down
on Saturday. And pretty soon we were closing at
noon on Saturday. And we found out we did the same
amount of business that we did in those extra
hours. And we cut down our overheads and things
like that. And I can't help but believe that
veterinarians are keeping all these extended
hours or something. We're going to begin to. That
realization that they're just spreading their
business out over a longer period. They're not
capturing a lot of new business by doing that. The
association. That it's going to come around to its
realization. I think, just like Tom said, it's a
group of happenings. And it's a trend. And I all
business the country. It's happening in all the
professions. It's dentistry, and law, and
medicine. I mean, we're not unique. We don't agree
with it. It's all not good. We used to have, at one
time, we had a, these people all remember that. We
had probably the most knit, close, neat
organization. I mean, we had our knock-down,
drag-out fights, but we all were friends when I was
older. We used to argue. I can never remember our
rabies meetings. I mean, they were classic. What
percent of our veterans in town are members of our
local association now? Half of them. I mean
members. We used to have, I bet we had 98% of people,
veterinarians, members. And they came to
meetings. They came to meetings. We had things at
4th Army. We had an Army man here who made all Army
people. And we had a real, but now as things get
larger, it's like these ranches, they get larger,
they get... You know, another example, another
example of that. is that when Wally Larson was the
president of our association, he and I were
sharing the old clinic down here, and he made me his
program chair. And he sat down and, you know,
coming from Wally, it was a shock to me when he sat
down and said this, because Wally was a big country
boy, you know, large animal practitioner. And he
said, Tom, he said, I want to change our image of
ourselves. He said, Every year we had our
installation of officers in the association. We
had a beer bust at Medina Lake. I mean, that was the
installation. And he said, I want us to have a black
tie affair. I want to invite all the local
dignitaries we can invite. Let's have it at the St.
Anthony Hotel. So I got going, and we planned that
thing. And we invited the president of all the
professional associations, all the base
commanders and the health center commanders. And
we happened to have the president of the Texas
Medical Association with a San Antonio physician
at that time. And we had the first formal
installation at the St. Anthony Hotel. It was
black tie only. And we had a packed crowd. And we had
local politicians. It was the most successful
image, and veterinarians walked away from that
feeling, really feeling like they were really
something. And I've heard talk now that the
installation is going to revert back to a casual
beer bus kind of thing. I said, Jesus. Here we go
again. I mean, I walk in veterinary clinics, and I
see veterinarians without ties and smocks on and
things like that. And I say, well, you know, here we
go again. When Al Nagel was president of the local
association, we had our meetings down at the St.
Anthony. And I mean, we had a dinner meeting, if you
recall. And I really think that something like
that has a tendency to raise us up a notch.